I once drove a Jeep that had no brakes
whatsoever whenever I had to stop for a
light my passenger would hop out and put
a brick under the front tire matter of
fact the only accessory that did work
was the horn if you have a vehicle with
no brakes I highly recommend that you
have a functional horn now sometimes
it's inconvenient to have the passenger
hop out all the time sometimes you
haven't got a passenger so for those two
reasons vehicles are equipped with some
sort of system to stop the vehicle
conveniently from the drivers position
now it might take 50 horsepower for five
seconds to accelerate your car to 50
kilometers per hour by the Acme school
rule number twelve of the universe it
will then take 50 horsepower for five
seconds to bring it to a stop putting
that in another fashion to stop a moving
vehicle you have to get rid of its
energy the braking system of the vehicle
is designed to rapidly convert that
energy into heat it does that conversion
by a trick first discovered by the
caveman friction actually friction comes
in the picture in two different ways the
conversion of forward motion to heat is
accomplished by contacting a rotating
metal surface with a pad or shoe of
softer composition if a braking system
is powerful enough to freeze or lock the
rolling wheels the tires will do that
conversion of forward motion to heat
friction surfaces are mounted on each
one of the wheels now to prevent you the
necessity of jumping out of the car to
activate them
there's a remote control system you can
actuate with your foot in the early days
of brake the foot force was transmitted
to the wheels by steel cables steel
cables are fraught with problems most
noticeably rust and stretch there is
still a steel brake cable on your car
it's used to activate the parking brake
the serious job of daily braking is left
to the science of hydraulics officially
hydraulics is the study of movement of
water but we're allowed to apply that
name to other fluids as well hydraulics
relies on two truths a fluid is not
compressible and a pressure exerted on a
will cause the fluid to exert equal
pressure in all directions it's like
some people I know
these cutaway models are hydraulic
cylinders that are found on a car's
braking system the little ones from one
of the wheels when fluids forced into it
through this hole the two Pistons push
out in equal distances with the equal
amounts of force
now some wheel cylinders only have one
piston but they're mounted so that the
whole unit can slide freely and by
Newton's first law of brakes
this gives the same effect the fluids
forced into the wheel cylinders by this
one known under the hood there are
actually two cylinders here with two
Pistons for safety each one operates
half of the system this little piston
rod is pushed at both ends by the
pressure in both circuits the pressure
isn't identical the rod will move a
little bit contact that wire like the
brake warning like these passages lead
to a reservoir of extra fluid in the
event that the system loses any fluid
it's automatically added and the brake
pedal operates is a lever on this piston
rod leverage can generate enough force
to stop the car but almost all cars now
have an extra device mounted on the
master cylinder uses the powerful engine
vacuum to move a diaphragm as you press
the pedal with this vacuum assist your
big toe can exert enough pressure to
stop the vehicle these are examples of
what's found behind the wheels on a car
or small truck the drum brake was the
communist type of brake assembly until
the 1970s drum brakes all have to
friction devices called shoes but the
shoes can have different functions
depending on the layout larger vehicles
use a layout like this called servo
brakes when the shoes are pushed
outwards by the hydraulic cylinder to
contact the drum they attempt to rotate
with it
servo brakes have one large shoe and one
small one the way the shoes are anchored
gives them a neat twist when the small
one contacts the drum it's free to
rotate a bit this rotation pushes at the
end of the bigger shoe which can't
rotate because the other end of it is
anchored the effect of all this is that
the smaller shoe forces the larger
shuutai press harder on the drum aiding
the friction
several breaks work when the vehicles
reversing but then the larger shoe is
forcing the smaller shoe into the drum
brakes on smaller cars use two equal
sized shoes that are self pushing you
get an idea of how a shoe wedges itself
into the drum by moving one hand over
the other like this in this type of
brake only one shoe really does the
breaking depending on which way the
drums turning the extra parts here to
adjust the position of the shoes is the
friction surface wears and to allow
connection to a steel cable that can
lock the brakes on for parking there's a
good chance that drum brakes still exist
only because of the ease of making that
parking brake linkage work because
there's a much better brake assembly if
you ever notice the way the front of a
car dips when the brakes are applied you
already know something important about
the car's braking system the front
brakes do most of the work the self
wedging action of the drum brake is good
but it means the shoes need spring
action to return them to rest and
because of that they need some means of
adjustment as the shoes wear down also
on their bad side the outward push on
the drum coupled with the heat generated
can distort the shape of the drum and
the drum collects dust and grit of all
kinds there's a disc brake it works like
this the disc is exposed to the air and
that helps keep it clean and dissipate
heat as well friction pads push equally
on both sides of the rotating surface so
there's less chance for Distortion the
unit that pushes the pads contains a
hydraulic cylinder that pushes only on
one of the pads but the whole works is
free to slide a bit so an equal force
gets centered on that rotor now since
there's no self wedging action no
springs are required when there's no
pressure on the hydraulic piston the
pads ride right alongside the rotor as
the pads wear more hydraulic fluid fills
up behind the piston to take up the
slack in a car with disc brakes you'll
notice fluid slowly disappearing from
the fluid reservoir as the pads wear
here's a disc pad this little tab has an
interesting function when the pads get
thin enough to require replacement it
contacts the rotor and may
a screeching noise in any event if you
hear any odd noises from the braking
system it's probably time to have a
checked either that or make sure you
always have a passenger with a brick